# Twist Enrollment and Maintenance Website
<br><h2>Collaborators for this project:
<br> Matt Chumsena, Morgan Perez, Bryan Weikle
<br><h2>Learning Objectives:
<br>I learned a lot from this project but I would say the main learning objectives would be collaboration, time management, client-programmer cooperation, and developing programming skills.
<ol>
  <li>Collaboration with team members was a vital part of this project. In order to get this large project finished in the time given we had to assign different parts of the website to each member to get more stuff done at the same time. Another key part of this is communication. Several pieces of this website relied on another part meaning that we had to talk to each other on how we were programming our parts and how we planned on getting them to sync with each other and the database.</li>
  <li>Time management was not really mention towards the beginning of the semester but it became very apparent that it would be needed for this project. We were introduced to teamgantt in order to help us keep track on when things needed to be completed in hopes of finishing in time for the presentation. We learned the hard way that since this was the first time any of us worked on a project of this scale that things took longer than expected to complete. Other challenges added to the completion time of certain aspects of the website such as the controllers and views.</li>
  <li>Although we did not interact with the client themselves we were shown how to research and gather the necessary information to produce a product suited for both the client and those they wish to use it on a regular basis. We were shown the importance of use cases to know how the product should be used and possible errors that may occur. We used E-R diagrams to keep track of fields and tables for the site along with the needed information for each and how they are all connected to one another. Site maps and wireframes were used to determine what the finished project would look like and to give us an idea if it would be user friendly.</li>
  <li>The final learning objective was developing our programming skills. We were should how to develop schema, controllers, views, and routes. We practiced with a small library database to see how to connect a database to the information that is entered on a website and how to pull that same information back out. We also learned how to have easy maintenance such as the ability to update or delete any of the information that is stored on the database. Another aspect of the programming skills was the use of a deployer in order to get our webstie onto the web and some key features to keep any information on the site secure from hackers.</li>
</ol>
<br><br>My Contributions:
<br>From the beginning of the project I was assigned as the leader of the group to help keep us on track and to help my teammates if and when they had any problems with their side of the project. When it came to the pre-production stage I created the Teamgantt to help us with time management. I developed the wireframes for the site and created a shared folder on google drive so everyone had access. I also created the repository in which all of our code was stored and the mLab database to store any information entered on the site. I also got a head start in developing the schema for each of the aspects of the website. When it came to the aspects of the site I was assigned the school and participants due to the fact that they rely on each other. I created the models, controllers, views and routes for schools and participants and created a few of each to test their functionality. When it came to the home page I made the few changes to it from the tutorial we did earlier in the semester but I will talk more on that in part four. When it came to the leadership role I suggested that we come in early each morning to work on the project before class by messaging them on Slack and I also kept tabs on the progress of my teammates and how it compared to our Teamgantt projection on how long we thought things would take us to complete. I also deployed the website using Heroku so it would be up and running before the presentation.
<br><br>Challenges:
<br>The challenges that occured with this project include mastering Github, finding time to work as a group, and not agreeing on a programming style before we separated into our own parts of the site.
<ul>
  <li>Github worked fine when we started the project but about half way we learned we did not know how to use it properly. We all created our own separate branch and made chagnes to the branch rather than the master to prevent messing up someone elses code. The problem started when we would all try pushing our changes to the master without doing it properly. This lead to two problems. The first occured with data loss. One of the pushes overwrote some of our code and 'corrected' it back to code that had existed towards the beginning of the project. The seconde problem we had is some pushes would not be up to date with the master and when we would try to run the program it would fail.</li>
  <li>The second challenge was finding time to work as a group. Besides before and during class our schedules never synced up preventing us from working face to face and making sure we were all up to date on the changes we had made separately.</li>
  <li>The final challenge was failing to complete the second phase of the project which was defining how we planned on accomplishing our goals along with the names we would be using for variables and the style we planned on using for the code. Several times we would wonder why a connection between two fields was not working and we would find out that we had named the same variable two different things so it did not know which to look for. Another issue with this is that we would all create our separate code and then when we tried either helping a teammate with their code or using their code to help with ours we did not communicate how we were coding which led to us wondering what different parts of the code even did. This was a huge part as to why we did not get done in time for the presentation.</li>
</ul>
<br><br>Incomplete Features:
<br>The features that were incomplete include the all of the aspects but I will go into deeper detail what each part was missing.
    <ul>
      <li>School: The school was using a HSID which it did not need because we could just use the _id from mongoose. The school also did not have a location or description so the only thing known about the school was the name and the students attedning the school.</li>
      <li>Participant: The participant was supposed to be the homepage to the site and the admin would sign in to access the rest of the features. The participant also needed a drop down menu for the schools instead of the checkboxes and they did not have the option of choicing their top five topics.</li>
      <li>Session: The session worked for the most part but I believe it got confused with schedule and had features that were not necessary. I also did not have the ability of choicing a date and time.</li>
      <li>Room: I believe the room worked the way we intended.</li>
      <li>Topic: The topic had code to create, update, and delete but it did not function properly when it was created and so there were never any to display or to be able for participants to choice from.</li>
      <li>Presenter: The presenter could be create but the data was not stored correctly making it display as undefined. They also did not have the ability of being connected to the topics that they would be teaching.</li>
      <li>Schedule: The schedule was never worked on because it relied on topic, presenter, session, and room. Three of the four of these did not function properly preventing a schedule from being created, updated, or deleted.</li>
<br><br>New Approach:
<br>If I were to do this assignment again I would make sure that everyone in the group is on the same page before anyone starts coding, to make sure that deadlines for each part are meant or if they are not then a plan is formed to catch back up, and the final thing I would do differently is to keep track of the changes I made and discuss them with my teammates so they know how my program works, and I would also keep track on how long each task takes me so I have a better idea how long it takes to complete a task to better estimate how long it would take to complete a project.
</ul>
